---
title: SCTF 2014 -- Pwn200
tags:
  - Pwnable
  - XCTF
  - SCTF
  - CTF
categories:
  - write-ups
date: 2014-12-08 13:19:00
---
[SCTF](http://ctf.sycsec.com/index.php/home) is a CTF contest hold by [XCTF](https://time.xctf.org.cn/) ( seems like a Chinese version's [CTFtime.org](https://ctftime.org/) ). Teaming up with my labmates, we have a lot of fun solving the challenges, and scored 2161 pts with the final rank 13/659. 
<!-- more -->
In Pwn200, they gave us a binary file and a libc.so. First we open the binary file with IDA Pro, and check the main function:

```c
 .......................
 .......................
  int buf; // [sp+9Ch] [bp-1Ch]@1
 .......................
  size_t n; // [sp+ACh] [bp-Ch]@1
 .......................
 ....................... 
 read(0, &buf, n + 1);
 if ( strlen((const char *)&buf) - 1 > 9 || strncmp("syclover", (const char *)&buf, 8u) )
 {
    result = -1;
 }
 else
 {
    write(1, "input slogan:", 0xEu);
    read(0, &v1, n);
    result = write(1, &v1, n);
 }
```	
notice at line `read(0, &buf, n + 1);`, we can overwrite the variable `n` by overflowing the `buf` variable. After we control `n`, we can input at most 255 characters at the line `read(0, &v1, n);`. By doing this, we can overwrite **(control)** the return address! 

But there's one problem: the program has enable the DEP protection. Since it gave us the libc.so, we think they might want us to use the **return-to-libc attack**. By checking the GOT entry using objdump, we know the GOT entry of `read()` is at address `0x08049850`. 

So how do we get the address of `system()`? Well, since we can overwrite the return address, we can set the return address to `write()`'s GOT entry. By giving the parameter `0x08049850`, we can leak the function pointer of `read()`, and calculate `system()`'s address by adding the offset ( we can get the offset by checking libc.so ).

After getting the address of `system()`, we can set the return address back to the head of main function, so we can execute the whole program again and write the memory by using `read()`. We can write "/bin/sh" to a memory address in .bss section, and set the return address to `system()`, with **pointer to "/bin/sh"** as the parameter. Finally, we spawn a shell and capture the flag.

To sum up, here's the step of the exploitation:
1. Overwrite `n`, so we can use `read()` to overwrite (control) the return address
2. Set the return address to `write()`, with the parameter `0x08049850` (read()'s GOT entry)
3. Calculate the address of `system()`
4. Set the return address back to the head of main function
5. Write "/bin/sh" to an address in .bss section by using read()
6. Repeat step 3 (for the final exploit)
7. Set the return address to `system()`, with pointer to "/bin/sh" as the parameter
8. Spawn the shell & capture the flag
 
flag: `SCTF{SH3NG_4_KAN_DAN__BU_FU_9_GANN}`